test/README.md, before:

# Node.js Core Tests

This directory contains code and data used to test the Node.js implementation.

For a detailed guide on how to write tests in this
directory, see [the guide on writing tests](../doc/guides/writing-tests.md).

On how to run tests in this directory, see
[the contributing guide](../doc/guides/contributing/pull-requests.md#step-6-test).

For the tests to run on Windows, be sure to clone Node.js source code with the
`autocrlf` git config flag set to true.

## Test Directories

| Directory        | Runs on CI | Purpose         |
| ---------------- | ---------- | --------------- |
| `abort`          | Yes        | Tests for when the `--abort-on-uncaught-exception` flag is used. |
| `addons`         | Yes        | Tests for [addon](https://nodejs.org/api/addons.html) functionality along with some tests that require an addon. |
| `async-hooks`    | Yes       | Tests for [async_hooks](https://nodejs.org/api/async_hooks.html) functionality. |
| `benchmark`      | Yes       | Test minimal functionality of benchmarks. |
| `cctest`         | Yes       | C++ tests that are run as part of the build process. |
| `code-cache`     | No        | Tests for a Node.js binary compiled with V8 code cache. |
| `common`         |           | Common modules shared among many tests. [Documentation](./common/README.md) |
| `doctool`        | Yes       | Tests for the documentation generator. |
| `es-module`      | Yes       | Test ESM module loading. |
| `fixtures`       |                | Test fixtures used in various tests throughout the test suite. |
| `inspector-cli`       | Yes        | Tests for `node inspect` |
| `internet`       | No        | Tests that make real outbound network connections. Tests for networking related modules may also be present in other directories, but those tests do not make outbound connections. |
| `js-native-api`  | Yes       | Tests for Node.js-agnostic [n-api](https://nodejs.org/api/n-api.html) functionality. |
| `known_issues`   | Yes       | Tests reproducing known issues within the system. All tests inside of this directory are expected to fail. If a test doesn't fail on certain platforms, those should be skipped via `known_issues.status`. |
| `message`        | Yes       | Tests for messages that are output for various conditions (`console.log`, error messages etc.) |
| `node-api`       | Yes       | Tests for Node.js-specific [n-api](https://nodejs.org/api/n-api.html) functionality. |
| `parallel`       | Yes       | Various tests that are able to be run in parallel. |
| `pseudo-tty`     | Yes       | Tests that require stdin/stdout/stderr to be a TTY. |
| `pummel`         | No        | Various tests for various modules / system functionality operating under load. |
| `sequential`     | Yes       | Various tests that must not run in parallel. |
| `testpy`         |           | Test configuration utility used by various test suites. |
| `tick-processor` | No        | Tests for the V8 tick processor integration. The tests are for the logic in `lib/internal/v8_prof_processor.js` and `lib/internal/v8_prof_polyfill.js`. The tests confirm that the profile processor packages the correct set of scripts from V8 and introduces the correct platform specific logic. |
| `v8-updates`     | No        | Tests for V8 performance integration. |

Commit message:

doc: indicate that abort tests do not generate core files
The key thing about the tests in `test/abort` is that tests in that
directory do not generate core files (thanks to testcfg.py). Make a note
of that in the test README.

PR-URL: https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/38422
Reviewed-By: Anna Henningsen <anna@addaleax.net>
Reviewed-By: Richard Lau <rlau@redhat.com>
Reviewed-By: Colin Ihrig <cjihrig@gmail.com>
Reviewed-By: James M Snell <jasnell@gmail.com>
Reviewed-By: Gireesh Punathil <gpunathi@in.ibm.com>

test/README.md, after:

# Node.js Core Tests

This directory contains code and data used to test the Node.js implementation.

For a detailed guide on how to write tests in this
directory, see [the guide on writing tests](../doc/guides/writing-tests.md).

On how to run tests in this directory, see
[the contributing guide](../doc/guides/contributing/pull-requests.md#step-6-test).

For the tests to run on Windows, be sure to clone Node.js source code with the
`autocrlf` git config flag set to true.

## Test Directories

| Directory        | Runs on CI | Purpose         |
| ---------------- | ---------- | --------------- |
| `abort`          | Yes        | Tests that use `--abort-on-uncaught-exception` and other situations where we want to test something but avoid generating a core file. |
| `addons`         | Yes        | Tests for [addon](https://nodejs.org/api/addons.html) functionality along with some tests that require an addon. |
| `async-hooks`    | Yes       | Tests for [async_hooks](https://nodejs.org/api/async_hooks.html) functionality. |
| `benchmark`      | Yes       | Test minimal functionality of benchmarks. |
| `cctest`         | Yes       | C++ tests that are run as part of the build process. |
| `code-cache`     | No        | Tests for a Node.js binary compiled with V8 code cache. |
| `common`         |           | Common modules shared among many tests. [Documentation](./common/README.md) |
| `doctool`        | Yes       | Tests for the documentation generator. |
| `es-module`      | Yes       | Test ESM module loading. |
| `fixtures`       |                | Test fixtures used in various tests throughout the test suite. |
| `inspector-cli`       | Yes        | Tests for `node inspect` |
| `internet`       | No        | Tests that make real outbound network connections. Tests for networking related modules may also be present in other directories, but those tests do not make outbound connections. |
| `js-native-api`  | Yes       | Tests for Node.js-agnostic [n-api](https://nodejs.org/api/n-api.html) functionality. |
| `known_issues`   | Yes       | Tests reproducing known issues within the system. All tests inside of this directory are expected to fail. If a test doesn't fail on certain platforms, those should be skipped via `known_issues.status`. |
| `message`        | Yes       | Tests for messages that are output for various conditions (`console.log`, error messages etc.) |
| `node-api`       | Yes       | Tests for Node.js-specific [n-api](https://nodejs.org/api/n-api.html) functionality. |
| `parallel`       | Yes       | Various tests that are able to be run in parallel. |
| `pseudo-tty`     | Yes       | Tests that require stdin/stdout/stderr to be a TTY. |
| `pummel`         | No        | Various tests for various modules / system functionality operating under load. |
| `sequential`     | Yes       | Various tests that must not run in parallel. |
| `testpy`         |           | Test configuration utility used by various test suites. |
| `tick-processor` | No        | Tests for the V8 tick processor integration. The tests are for the logic in `lib/internal/v8_prof_processor.js` and `lib/internal/v8_prof_polyfill.js`. The tests confirm that the profile processor packages the correct set of scripts from V8 and introduces the correct platform specific logic. |
| `v8-updates`     | No        | Tests for V8 performance integration. |
