doc/guides/maintaining-openssl.md, before:

# Maintaining OpenSSL

This document describes how to update `deps/openssl/`.

## Requirements
* Linux environment.
* `perl` Only Perl version 5 is tested.
* `nasm` (<https://www.nasm.us/>) Version 2.11 or higher is needed.
* GNU `as` in binutils. Version 2.26 or higher is needed.

## 0. Check Requirements

```console
% perl -v

This is perl 5, version 22, subversion 1 (v5.22.1) built for
x86_64-linux-gnu-thread-multi
(with 60 registered patches, see perl -V for more detail)

% as --version
GNU assembler (GNU Binutils for Ubuntu) 2.26.1
Copyright (C) 2015 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
...
% nasm -v
NASM version 2.11.08
```

## 1. Obtain and extract new OpenSSL sources

Get a new source from <https://www.openssl.org/source/> and extract
all files into `deps/openssl/openssl`. Then add all files and commit
them.
```console
% cd deps/openssl/
% rm -rf openssl
% tar zxf ~/tmp/openssl-1.1.0h.tar.gz
% mv openssl-1.1.0h openssl
% git add --all openssl
% git commit openssl
```

The commit message can be written as (with the openssl version set
to the relevant value):
```text
deps: upgrade openssl sources to 1.1.0h

This updates all sources in deps/openssl/openssl by:
    $ cd deps/openssl/
    $ rm -rf openssl
    $ tar zxf ~/tmp/openssl-1.1.0h.tar.gz
    $ mv openssl-1.1.0h openssl
    $ git add --all openssl
    $ git commit openssl
```

#### Updating the QUIC APIs

The APIs to support the QUIC implementation are a port of the BoringSSL
implementation that has not yet landed in OpenSSL. They must be re-applied
separately after updating the openssl source as described above. The
current patch implementation can be found in the `deps/openssl/patches`
directory in the file `0001-deps-add-support-for-BoringSSL-QUIC-APIs.patch`
and should be applied from the root of the repo.

```console
% git am --directory deps/openssl/openssl/ deps/openssl/patches/0001-deps-add-support-for-BoringSSL-QUIC-APIs.patch
```

The patch file itself is generated by squashing commits from the
`OpenSSL_1_1_1i-quic` fork of the Akamai OpenSSL fork located
[here](https://github.com/akamai/openssl), starting with
[this commit](https://github.com/akamai/openssl/commit/3b0bdf80dabddfe37d8f8f07e82a2ba85f5a93ad),
then applying additional edits to update the implementation to
openssl-1.1.1i. As OpenSSL updates are made, additional updates
to the patch may be necessary to keep the patch in sync.

The patch is currently supported only for openssl-1.1.1i.

You also need to apply <https://github.com/nodejs/node/commit/f5343d1b40be969709035be2598b38e79cc8105e/>
to re-enable OPENSSL\_NO\_QUIC guards.

## 2. Execute `make` in `deps/openssl/config` directory

Use `make` to regenerate all platform dependent files in
`deps/openssl/config/archs/`:
```console
# On non-Linux machines
% make gen-openssl

# On Linux machines
% make -C deps/openssl/config
```

## 3. Check diffs

Check diffs to ensure updates are right. Even if there are no updates in openssl
sources, `buildinf.h` files will be updated because they have timestamp
data in them.
```console
% git diff -- deps/openssl
```

*Note*: On Windows, OpenSSL Configure generates a `makefile` that can be
used for the `nmake` command. The `make` command in step 2 (above) uses
 `Makefile_VC-WIN64A` and `Makefile_VC-WIN32` that are manually
created. When source files or build options are updated in Windows,
it needs to change these two Makefiles by hand. If you are not sure,
please ask @shigeki for details.

## 4. Commit and make test

Update all architecture dependent files. Do not forget to git add or remove
files if they are changed before committing:
```console
% git add deps/openssl/config/archs
% git add deps/openssl/openssl/include/crypto/bn_conf.h
% git add deps/openssl/openssl/include/crypto/dso_conf.h
% git add deps/openssl/openssl/include/openssl/opensslconf.h
% git commit
```

The commit message can be written as (with the openssl version set
to the relevant value):
```text
 deps: update archs files for OpenSSL-1.1.0

 After an OpenSSL source update, all the config files need to be
 regenerated and committed by:
    $ make -C deps/openssl/config
    $ git add deps/openssl/config/archs
    $ git add deps/openssl/openssl/include/crypto/bn_conf.h
    $ git add deps/openssl/openssl/include/crypto/dso_conf.h
    $ git add deps/openssl/openssl/include/openssl/opensslconf.h
    $ git commit
```

Finally, build Node.js and run the tests.

Commit message:

doc: expand openssl instructions
Refs: https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/36541

Expand the instructions to cover what is needed when
updates are required across all active release lines

PR-URL: https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/36554
Reviewed-By: Richard Lau <rlau@redhat.com>
Reviewed-By: Myles Borins <myles.borins@gmail.com>

doc/guides/maintaining-openssl.md, after:

# Maintaining OpenSSL

This document describes how to update `deps/openssl/`.

If you need to provide updates across all active release lines you will
currently need to generate three PRs as follows:

* a PR for master which is generated following the instructions
  below which include the QUIC patch.
* a PR for 14.x following the instruction below based on the
  14,x branch but skipping the step to apply the QUICK patch.
  This PR should cherry pick back to the active release lines
  except for the 10.x line.
* a PR which uses the same commit from the second PR to apply the
  updates to the openssl source code, with a new commit generated
  by following steps 2 onwards on the 10.x line. This is
  necessary because differences in 10.x requires that the
  configuration files be regenerated specifically for 10.x.

## Requirements
* Linux environment.
* `perl` Only Perl version 5 is tested.
* `nasm` (<https://www.nasm.us/>) Version 2.11 or higher is needed.
* GNU `as` in binutils. Version 2.26 or higher is needed.

## 0. Check Requirements

```console
% perl -v

This is perl 5, version 22, subversion 1 (v5.22.1) built for
x86_64-linux-gnu-thread-multi
(with 60 registered patches, see perl -V for more detail)

% as --version
GNU assembler (GNU Binutils for Ubuntu) 2.26.1
Copyright (C) 2015 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
...
% nasm -v
NASM version 2.11.08
```

## 1. Obtain and extract new OpenSSL sources

Get a new source from <https://www.openssl.org/source/> and extract
all files into `deps/openssl/openssl`. Then add all files and commit
them.
```console
% cd deps/openssl/
% rm -rf openssl
% tar zxf ~/tmp/openssl-1.1.0h.tar.gz
% mv openssl-1.1.0h openssl
% git add --all openssl
% git commit openssl
```

The commit message can be written as (with the openssl version set
to the relevant value):
```text
deps: upgrade openssl sources to 1.1.0h

This updates all sources in deps/openssl/openssl by:
    $ cd deps/openssl/
    $ rm -rf openssl
    $ tar zxf ~/tmp/openssl-1.1.0h.tar.gz
    $ mv openssl-1.1.0h openssl
    $ git add --all openssl
    $ git commit openssl
```

#### Updating the QUIC APIs

The APIs to support the QUIC implementation are a port of the BoringSSL
implementation that has not yet landed in OpenSSL. They must be re-applied
separately after updating the openssl source as described above. The
current patch implementation can be found in the `deps/openssl/patches`
directory in the file `0001-deps-add-support-for-BoringSSL-QUIC-APIs.patch`
and should be applied from the root of the repo.

```console
% git am --directory deps/openssl/openssl/ deps/openssl/patches/0001-deps-add-support-for-BoringSSL-QUIC-APIs.patch
```

The patch file itself is generated by squashing commits from the
`OpenSSL_1_1_1i-quic` fork of the Akamai OpenSSL fork located
[here](https://github.com/akamai/openssl), starting with
[this commit](https://github.com/akamai/openssl/commit/3b0bdf80dabddfe37d8f8f07e82a2ba85f5a93ad),
then applying additional edits to update the implementation to
openssl-1.1.1i. As OpenSSL updates are made, additional updates
to the patch may be necessary to keep the patch in sync.

The patch is currently supported only for openssl-1.1.1i.

You also need to apply <https://github.com/nodejs/node/commit/f5343d1b40be969709035be2598b38e79cc8105e/>
to re-enable OPENSSL\_NO\_QUIC guards.

## 2. Execute `make` in `deps/openssl/config` directory

Use `make` to regenerate all platform dependent files in
`deps/openssl/config/archs/`:
```console
# On non-Linux machines
% make gen-openssl

# On Linux machines
% make -C deps/openssl/config
```

## 3. Check diffs

Check diffs to ensure updates are right. Even if there are no updates in openssl
sources, `buildinf.h` files will be updated because they have timestamp
data in them.
```console
% git diff -- deps/openssl
```

*Note*: On Windows, OpenSSL Configure generates a `makefile` that can be
used for the `nmake` command. The `make` command in step 2 (above) uses
 `Makefile_VC-WIN64A` and `Makefile_VC-WIN32` that are manually
created. When source files or build options are updated in Windows,
it needs to change these two Makefiles by hand. If you are not sure,
please ask @shigeki for details.

## 4. Commit and make test

Update all architecture dependent files. Do not forget to git add or remove
files if they are changed before committing:
```console
% git add deps/openssl/config/archs
% git add deps/openssl/openssl/include/crypto/bn_conf.h
% git add deps/openssl/openssl/include/crypto/dso_conf.h
% git add deps/openssl/openssl/include/openssl/opensslconf.h
% git commit
```

The commit message can be written as (with the openssl version set
to the relevant value):
```text
 deps: update archs files for OpenSSL-1.1.0

 After an OpenSSL source update, all the config files need to be
 regenerated and committed by:
    $ make -C deps/openssl/config
    $ git add deps/openssl/config/archs
    $ git add deps/openssl/openssl/include/crypto/bn_conf.h
    $ git add deps/openssl/openssl/include/crypto/dso_conf.h
    $ git add deps/openssl/openssl/include/openssl/opensslconf.h
    $ git commit
```

Finally, build Node.js and run the tests.
