deps/npm/docs/content/commands/npm-uninstall.md, before:

---
title: npm-uninstall
section: 1
description: Remove a package
---

### Synopsis

```bash
npm uninstall [<@scope>/]<pkg>[@<version>]... [-S|--save|-D|--save-dev|-O|--save-optional|--no-save]

aliases: remove, rm, r, un, unlink
```

### Description

This uninstalls a package, completely removing everything npm installed
on its behalf.

Example:

```bash
npm uninstall sax
```

In global mode (ie, with `-g` or `--global` appended to the command),
it uninstalls the current package context as a global package.

`npm uninstall` takes 3 exclusive, optional flags which save or update
the package version in your main package.json:

* `-S, --save`: Package will be removed from your `dependencies`.

* `-D, --save-dev`: Package will be removed from your `devDependencies`.

* `-O, --save-optional`: Package will be removed from your `optionalDependencies`.

* `--no-save`: Package will not be removed from your `package.json` file.

Further, if you have an `npm-shrinkwrap.json` then it will be updated as
well.

Scope is optional and follows the usual rules for [`scope`](/using-npm/scope).

Examples:
```bash
npm uninstall sax --save
npm uninstall @myorg/privatepackage --save
npm uninstall node-tap --save-dev
npm uninstall dtrace-provider --save-optional
npm uninstall lodash --no-save
```

### See Also

* [npm prune](/commands/npm-prune)
* [npm install](/commands/npm-install)
* [npm folders](/configuring-npm/folders)
* [npm config](/commands/npm-config)
* [npmrc](/configuring-npm/npmrc)

Commit message:

deps: upgrade npm to 7.4.2
PR-URL: https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/36953
Reviewed-By: Myles Borins <myles.borins@gmail.com>
Reviewed-By: Rich Trott <rtrott@gmail.com>
Reviewed-By: Luigi Pinca <luigipinca@gmail.com>
Reviewed-By: Michaël Zasso <targos@protonmail.com>

deps/npm/docs/content/commands/npm-uninstall.md, after:

---
title: npm-uninstall
section: 1
description: Remove a package
---

### Synopsis

```bash
npm uninstall [<@scope>/]<pkg>[@<version>]... [-S|--save|--no-save]

aliases: remove, rm, r, un, unlink
```

### Description

This uninstalls a package, completely removing everything npm installed
on its behalf.

It also removes the package from the `dependencies`, `devDependencies`,
`optionalDependencies`, and `peerDependencies` objects in your
`package.json`.

Futher, if you have an `npm-shrinkwrap.json` or `package-lock.json`, npm
will update those files as well.

`--no-save` will tell npm not to remove the package from your
`package.json`, `npm-shrinkwrap.json`, or `package-lock.json` files.

`--save` or `-S` will tell npm to remove the package from your
`package.json`, `npm-shrinkwrap.json`, and `package-lock.json` files.
This is the default, but you may need to use this if you have for
instance `save=false` in your `npmrc` file

In global mode (ie, with `-g` or `--global` appended to the command),
it uninstalls the current package context as a global package.
`--no-save` is ignored in this case.

Scope is optional and follows the usual rules for [`scope`](/using-npm/scope).

### Examples

```bash
npm uninstall sax
```

`sax` will no longer be in your `package.json`, `npm-shrinkwrap.json`, or
`package-lock.json` files.

```bash
npm uninstall lodash --no-save
```

`lodash` will not be removed from your `package.json`,
`npm-shrinkwrap.json`, or `package-lock.json` files.

### See Also

* [npm prune](/commands/npm-prune)
* [npm install](/commands/npm-install)
* [npm folders](/configuring-npm/folders)
* [npm config](/commands/npm-config)
* [npmrc](/configuring-npm/npmrc)
